Adds What's new in Swift May 2026 blog post. (#1422)
apple/swift-org-website: _posts/2026-06-02-whats-new-in-swift-may-2026.md

---
layout: new-layouts/post
published: true
date: 2026-06-03 15:30:00
title: "What's new in Swift: May 2026 Edition"
author: [davelester]
category: "Digest"
---

Welcome to "What's new in Swift," a curated digest of releases, videos, and discussions in the Swift project and community. This month, we're featuring the many local meetup groups that are showcasing great Swift content:

> As I’ve contributed to these digest posts, I’ve been keen to follow the many local meetup groups and conferences featuring Swift content around the world. Some of these groups predate even Swift itself, while others are much newer. I wanted to highlight a few of them and encourage others to follow in their footsteps.
> 

> > Several meetup groups have YouTube channels and have shared videos from their events that you can tune into remotely. In May the SF Swift meetup hosted a talk by Dan Federman, [Agentify Your Swift Repo](https://vimeo.com/1195418169?autoplay=1&muted=1&stream_id=Y2xpcHN8MjM2NTA1NDQ2fGlkOmRlc2N8W10%3D) which covers building an agent for CI and review feedback. [Swift Barcelona](https://www.youtube.com/@SwiftBarcelona) has a dedicated YouTube presence, while some groups like the new MLX India meetup have playlists of their events, which include an [MLX Swift talk about using MLX Swift in iOS apps](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EIwP73vV2a0&list=PLW4mt_1SMN_kQiK-HaZIoe-p5SNg8ocGU&index=3) that's worth checking out. And there’s even a community-organized [Swift Community Meetups YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@SwiftCommunityMeetups) which hosts meetups online and is home to a series of cross-platform Swift talks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Several meetup groups have YouTube channels and have shared videos from their events that you can tune into remotely. In May the SF Swift meetup hosted a talk by Dan Federman, [Agentify Your Swift Repo](https://vimeo.com/1195418169?autoplay=1&muted=1&stream_id=Y2xpcHN8MjM2NTA1NDQ2fGlkOmRlc2N8W10%3D), which covers building an agent for CI and review feedback. [Swift Barcelona](https://www.youtube.com/@SwiftBarcelona) has a dedicated YouTube presence, while some groups like the new MLX India meetup have playlists of their events, which include an [MLX Swift talk about using MLX Swift in iOS apps](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EIwP73vV2a0&list=PLW4mt_1SMN_kQiK-HaZIoe-p5SNg8ocGU&index=3) that's worth checking out. And there’s even a community-organized [Swift Community Meetups YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@SwiftCommunityMeetups), which hosts meetups online and is home to a series of cross-platform Swift talks.
```

missing commas on non-restrictive clauses.

> 

> > It’s great to see the many ways developers are using Swift, and I’m encouraged by these groups:

Reviewer: `I'm encouraged by these groups:` makes me think you're about to list some specific groups, but then it doesn't materialize like that - maybe needs some slight rephrasing or reframing to what you're introducing with the bullets below?

> 
> * Local community: they’re building local connections among Swift developers and organizations.
> * Variety of talks: I appreciate how meetups sometimes feature works in progress, which conference talks often lack. Having spaces to explore and get feedback on ideas and to improve and to learn is really valuable.
> 

> > I want to encourage more folks to not only get involved in their local Swift meetup but also to get in touch if your local group starts publishing content, and videos, I’ll definitely follow!

Reviewer: slightly run-on sentence with a comma-splice, maybe break this up into a couple sentences?

Author: ```suggestion
> I encourage more folks to get involved in their local Swift meetup. And if your local group starts publishing content and videos, please share on the [Swift Forums](https://forums.swift.org) in the [Community Showcase category](https://forums.swift.org/c/community-showcase/66).
```

> 
> &mdash; Dave Lester

Now on to other news about Swift:

## Videos to watch

> * Interested in using Swift for backend server development? Mohammad Azam recorded an [Introduction to Hummingbird](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BKMaXnSK5Kc) livestream focused on the Hummingbird web framework written in Swift. The video walks through installation and basics of developing with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Interested in using Swift for backend server development? Mohammad Azam recorded an [Introduction to Hummingbird](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BKMaXnSK5Kc) livestream focused on the Swift web framework: Hummingbird. The video walks through installing Hummingbird and the basics of developing with it.
```

rephrasing? the "written in Swift" that trailed felt somewhat awkward there.

Author: Thanks! This is helpful, I also realize the title of the video says Hummingbird so the mention is redundant. Adjusting this text a bit more.

```suggestion
* Interested in using Swift for backend server development? Mohammad Azam posted a livestream recording of [Introduction to Hummingbird](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BKMaXnSK5Kc), a walkthrough of the Swift web framework covering installation and the basics of developing with it.
```

* [Meet the Temporal Swift SDK](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LaU7z77cc2s&t=24s), from Replay 2026, introduces the SDK that brings Temporal's durable workflows (long-running processes that survive crashes, retries, and restarts without losing state) to Swift. The SDK recently reached its 1.0.0 release.
* Sébastien Stormacq shares a great introduction to what's possible with AWS Lambda and Swift, presenting [Swift, Server-side, & Serverless](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qcp99G6JGIU) on the DevStandup YouTube channel.

## Community highlights

> * Swift and WebAssembly continues to be an exciting part of the project, with regular activity shared on the Swift forums including the most recent [Swift for Wasm May 2026 Updates](https://forums.swift.org/t/swift-for-wasm-may-2026-updates/86981). And if you missed it, check out the new [blog post by Goodnotes](/blog/bringing-goodnotes-to-web-with-swift/) about how they brought Goodnotes to the web with Swift and WebAssembly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Swift and WebAssembly continues to be an exciting part of the project, with regular activity shared on the Swift forums, including the most recent [Swift for Wasm May 2026 Updates](https://forums.swift.org/t/swift-for-wasm-may-2026-updates/86981). And if you missed it, check out the new [blog post by GoodNotes](/blog/bringing-goodnotes-to-web-with-swift/) about how they brought GoodNotes to the web with Swift and WebAssembly.
```

Goodnotes -> GoodNotes? Is that the right brand naming?

Author: It's actually lowercase n, but thanks for asking! I appreciate the comma fix, I'll merge that.

```suggestion
* Swift and WebAssembly continues to be an exciting part of the project, with regular activity shared on the Swift forums, including the most recent [Swift for Wasm May 2026 Updates](https://forums.swift.org/t/swift-for-wasm-may-2026-updates/86981). And if you missed it, check out the new [blog post by Goodnotes](/blog/bringing-goodnotes-to-web-with-swift/) about how they brought Goodnotes to the web with Swift and WebAssembly.
```

> * The [2026 Swift Mentorship Program](https://www.swift.org/mentorship/) was announced, and there's still time until June 15, 2026 to complete the interest survey if you'd like to be a mentee. Working on contributions is a great way to learn. And on that note, [three Swift projects were accepted for GSoC 2026](https://forums.swift.org/t/gsoc-2026-accepted-projects/86398). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The [2026 Swift Mentorship Program](https://www.swift.org/mentorship/) was announced, and there's still time until June 15, 2026, to complete the interest survey to be a mentee. Working on contributions is a great way to learn. And on that note, [three Swift projects were accepted for GSoC 2026](https://forums.swift.org/t/gsoc-2026-accepted-projects/86398). 
```

Missing comma, and making the CTA a little more direct for mentee survey

* [Training an LLM in Swift, Part 1](https://www.cocoawithlove.com/blog/matrix-multiplications-swift.html) - Matt Gallagher takes handwritten matrix multiplication for a Swift port of llm.c from 2.8 Gflop/s to 1.1 Tflop/s — a 382x speedup — using Swift 6.2's `MutableSpan` and `InlineArray`, `Relaxed.multiplyAdd` from Swift Numerics, `DispatchQueue.concurrentPerform`, and finally AMX and Metal. A thorough tour of performance optimization in modern Swift.

> * Members of the community using and contributing to the VS Code Swift Extension met in May during the [Swift Extension Community Office Hours](https://forums.swift.org/t/swift-extension-community-office-hours-agenda-may-21-2026/86279/2), featuring Swift demos using Kiro and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Members of the community using and contributing to the VS Code Swift Extension met in May during the [Swift Extension Community Office Hours](https://forums.swift.org/t/swift-extension-community-office-hours-agenda-may-21-2026/86279/2), featuring demonstrations of using Kiro and more.
```

The second Swift seems redundant here - suggest dropping it
The "and more" at the tail is a bit vague - is there anything more detailed about the community hour that stood out, or is it really about the Kiro demo?

## New package releases

> * You can build an AI agent in Swift? The [Swift Bedrock Library](https://github.com/build-on-aws/swift-bedrock-library) gives you a native library for Amazon Bedrock foundation models.

Reviewer: `You can build an AI agent in Swift?` doesn't read smoothly to me as a question. Maybe "Want to build an AI agent in Swift?" or "Building an AI agent in Swift?" And is "native" a word we tend to avoid? Maybe "A Swift library" instead of "a native library"

Author: Good feedback, making this revision based on it:

```suggestion
* Want to build an AI agent in Swift? The [Swift Bedrock Library](https://github.com/build-on-aws/swift-bedrock-library) gives you a Swift library for Amazon Bedrock foundation models.
```

* [SwiftOSC](https://github.com/orchetect/swift-osc) is an Open Sound Control (OSC) toolkit written in Swift which recently became cross-platform, now supporting Apple platforms, Linux, and Android. It's music to our ears! Steffan Andrews, who developed SwiftOSC, has also released other music-related Swift packages including [SwiftMIDI](https://github.com/orchetect/swift-midi) and [SwiftTimecode](https://github.com/orchetect/swift-timecode).

> * Ordo One shipped version 1.33.0 of [Benchmark](https://github.com/ordo-one/benchmark), a package for creating sophisticated Swift performance benchmarks for a [wide variety of metrics](https://swiftpackageindex.com/ordo-one/benchmark/1.33.0/documentation/benchmark/metrics).

Reviewer: might also be worth mentioning that it got a rename in the process too - from "package-benchmark" to just "benchmark". (I had to update some projects...)

Author: Good to know! I think I'll leave this detail out of the digest for simplicity, but appreciate the heads-up!
